# UnInstallation procedure

## Why a special uninstall procedure ?

Unlike other mods, Path To Tarkov need to be uninstalled properly.
This is because PTT made some changes to the profile in order to implement traders access restrictions and multistash system.

With that in mind, you can create dedicated profiles for playing with PTT, so you don't have to care about this uninstall process.

## How to uninstall

Mandatory steps:

1. edit the `user/mods/Trap-PathToTarkov/configs/UserConfig.json5` file in your spt directory.
2. pass the property `runUninstallProcedure` to `true` and save the file.
3. start your spt server. when the server is fully started, PTT should be uninstalled and disabled

Optional steps (cleanup):

4. stop the spt server
5. remove the mod (don't forget `Trap-PathToTarkov.dll` in `BepInEx/plugins`)

## FAQ

> I don't have any `UserConfig.json5` file

This file is automatically generated on first start of the spt server.
If it's missing, It probably means that you don't need to run the uninstall procedure.

------

> What exactly does the uninstall procedure to my profile ?

1. It will restore your main hideout stash items (otherwise you risk getting stuck on a secondary stash)
2. It will unlock all traders according to completed quests (this work for Jaeger Introduction quest but also for modded traders)

When running your spt server with `runUninstallProcedure` set to true, it will restore back all profiles that need to be restored.
You can check PTT logs in the server console to see more details on what's going on.

------

> I removed PTT without running the uninstall process, is it a problem ?

Not especially, you can re-install and run the uninstall process if you have doubt or if one of your profile is broken.
